# Interview-Portfolio
A repository containing a recap of my progress in computer science through out the year.
<html>
  <body>
    <h1>A List of My Work</h1>
      <ol>
        <li>Count Down Timer</li>
        <li>Shooting Star</li>
        <li>Bouncy Ball</li>
        <li>Magic 8 Ball</li>
        <li>Constellation Maker</li>
        <li>Picture Painter</li>
        <li>Colourful Creature</li>
        <li>Travel Webpage</li>
        <li>Book List Data Base</li>
        <li>Design a Store Data Base</li>
      </ol>
    <h2>Summaries</h2>
      <p><strong>Count Down Timer</strong>: This assignment is what I completed for the creative coding challenge assigned for my               computer science class. It's function was to be a simple timer that counts down from a user inputted value until it reaches zero         when it will stop and display a message. It was able to count down using a set interval that was equivalent to 1000 miliseconds         (1 second). I believe that this will be able to help me continue to program greatly as I now know the basics of programming time         so the possibilities with this are <strong>nearly endless</strong> I believe. Finally it lead me to further understand how to           use multiple things, whatever they may be (lines of code, equations, etc...) to accomplish a specific task, allowing me to               tackle new concepts of most kinds will a little more ease at least.<br><br>
        <strong>Shooting Star</strong>: This project served as an introduction to basic animation with JS by creating and manipulating           shapes over time (moving the stars). If I decide to continute to delve into animation with JS, this project will serve                   as a solid base to start off of as it include the utilazation of most basic concepts for said concept. Finally it will allow me         to continue to learn as it demonstrates how functions (in this case linear ones) can be put to use in the real world, and has           gotten me thinking about other ways to use functions in programming.<br><br>
        <strong>Bouncy Ball</strong>: The bouncy ball challenge, which utilised if statements to change the speed and direction of a             circle at certain points, I completed helped me further understand the use of if statements and creating specific funcions if           they activate (in this case the balls speed and direction would change if an if statement activated). This will allow me to             continue to learn as if statements are integral to programming with js and will open many paths for creativity. Lastly as a             student it has given me a deeper understanding of the importance of steps at certain times as they can be absolutely nessecary           at times.<br><br>
        <strong>Magic 8 Ball</strong>: Just like with the bouncy ball challenge, this project has helped my understanding of using               random numbers and their generators in coding as I created a program that would generate a random number which would cause a             corresponding message to appear inside a magic 8 ball. I can continue to learn with random numbers by thinking of new ways to           use them and how they can be used in conjunction with other functions to create more complex programs. It has also improved my           grasp on the concept of random numbers and how they function.<br><br>
        <strong>Constellation Maker</strong>: The constellation maker challenge I completed consisted of a program that had mouse               interaction with mouse clicks to place stars on the canvas wherever the users mouse is. This will help me greatly with creating         new programs in the future and website design as it is a good reference and introduction to mouse interaction and a recap on for         loops. This program also influenced my countdown timer project as I wanted more user interaction with it and im sure it                 will influence future projects of mine to revolve around the user.<br><br>
        <strong>Picture Painter</strong>: Picture painter uses the users mouse to constantly place an image unless the user is holding           down their mouse1 button (left click). The use of functions has had the biggest impact on me as the one needed in this project           served as a solid recap and a new way for me to think using functions as I always found functions a bit confusing proir to this.         Finally I believe I can use this challenge to learn in the furture as I found applications where you could paint like this               interesting, so in the future I may use this knowledge to further understand this concept and possibly make a small painting             program as I believe it would be interesting and fun.<br><br>
        <strong>Colourful Creature</strong>: Colourful creature required me to change the size and colour of text on a canvas, as well           as change the background colour and include an image. This challenge put together most of my skills i had learned for HTML and           CSS which has given me a very useful reference and has allowed me to further understand these concepts. Lastly I'll be able to           use this knowledge in the future to futher expand my understanding of website design and such.<br><br>
        <strong>Tavel Webpage</strong>: Travel Webpage culminated everything I had learnt up to this point in HTML and CSS (pictures,           text, lists, colour, etc...). I can further my learning with this by having a base for website design and build off of it so I           can improve my capabilities in this field with websites. The largest impact this has had on me on a student was allowing me to           see how I can take many things (skills, techniques, etc...) that I am less creative with and put them together to make                   something, in this case a webpage, that I can be very creative with.<br><br>
        <strong>Book List Data Base</strong>: The book list database challenge required me to make a database table that contained three         books with various ratings. This challenge allowed me to further understand the use of data bases and how they are actually             created. Finally it will continue to help me learn as it is the base for the use of tables and is already giving me ideas for           what I could do with it in a website such as compilitng information inputted from people visiting the website.<br><br>
        <strong>Design a Store Data Base</strong>: The goal of this project was to create a store database for inventory from scratch. It has helped me further understand how to fully utilise data tables in ways such as finding the sum of certain sections of the table (in this case the sum of the inventory) or finding what type of inventory has an amount above a certain number. It will continue to help me learn as I have a better understanding of how buisnesses can utilise this type of program and has given me ideas of what I can do to provide this type of program for buisnesses but in a better way, such as having better descriptions for things that can be toggled on or off so important things can be viewed when they are needed.<br><br>
      </p>
    <h2>Links to Projects</h2>
      <p><strong>Count Down Timer</strong>:https://editor.p5js.org/FezGuuy/sketches/Fq5dgmRAY<br><br>
        <strong>Shooting Star</strong>:https://www.khanacademy.org/computer-programming/spin-off-of-project-shooting-star/6281834983079936<br><br>
        <strong>Bouncy Ball</strong>:https://www.khanacademy.org/computing/computer-programming/programming/logic-if-statements/pc/challenge-bouncy-ball<br><br>
        <strong>Magic 8 Ball</strong>:https://www.khanacademy.org/computer-programming/spin-off-of-project-magic-8-ball/6153528287051776<br><br>
        <strong>Constellation Maker</strong>:https://www.khanacademy.org/computing/computer-programming/programming/arrays/pc/challenge-constellation-maker<br><br>
        <strong>Picture Painter</strong>:https://www.khanacademy.org/computing/computer-programming/programming/objects/pc/challenge-picture-painter<br><br>
        <strong>Colourful Creature</strong>:https://www.khanacademy.org/computing/computer-programming/html-css/intro-to-css/pc/challenge-colorful-creature<br><br>
        <strong>Travel Webpage</strong>:https://www.khanacademy.org/computer-programming/spin-off-of-project-travel-webpage/6250527213633536<br><br>
        <strong>Book List Data Base</strong>:https://www.khanacademy.org/computing/computer-programming/sql/sql-basics/pc/challenge-book-list-database<br><br>
        <strong>Design a Store Data Base</strong>:https://www.khanacademy.org/computer-programming/spin-off-of-project-design-a-store-database/5374701005848576<br><br>
  </body>
</html>
